# Are words equally surprising in audio and audio-visual comprehension?

## Introduction
In this study, we examine the impact of visual information on language comprehension by comparing audio-only and audio-visual presentations of verbal stimuli. 
We specifically focus on the N400 event-related potential (ERP) signature associated with each word. We investigate how measures of word predictability (surprisal) generated by different language models (n-gram and transformer models) correlate with the N400 responses. 
Our findings indicate that cognitive effort, as measured by surprisal, differs significantly between multimodal and unimodal settings. Surprisal estimates from language models reveal that transformer-based models provide a better fit for N400 signals in the audio-only setting, while 2-gram language models are more suitable in the multimodal setting. 
This suggests that local verbal context has a significant influence on cognitive processing in a multimodal comprehension scenario.




More details coming soon ... 

## Project Structure
The project repository is structured as follows:

- `data/`: This directory contains the datasets used for the experiments.
- `code/`: This directory contains the code scripts for running the experiments and analyzing the data.
- `README.md`: This file provides an overview of the project and instructions for running the experiments.


## Getting Started
To reproduce the experiments or analyze the data, follow the steps below:

1. Clone this repository: 
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/word-surprise-audio-visual.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the `code/` directory.
3. Install the necessary dependencies specified in the `requirements.txt` file.
4. Point to the resources as mentioned in the `README.md` file in the `data/` directory. 
5. Follow the instructions provided in the `README.md` file in the `code/` directory to run the experiments and analyze the data.


```
@article{madhyastha2023words,
  title={Are words equally surprising in audio and audio-visual comprehension?},
  author={Madhyastha, Pranava and Zhang, Ye and Vigliocco, Gabriella},
  journal={Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society},
  volume={45},
  year={2023}
}
```
